b-12 production in the body is kind of
redundant you produce it in the nasal
mucosa you produce it in the throat you
produce it in this in the small
intestines you produce it again in the
colon but it's a very little use to us
in the column because you know there's
no absorption sites down there produce
it under your fingernails you clean your
nails with your teeth we did on them
it's on the sidewalk if you lick the
sidewalk it's right there it's we do
have really low needs it if you're
eating organic food it's it's on your
food you absorb it under your tongue
when you bite into lettuce and you know
the dirt that's on the top of an apple
by the stem I mean that's rich in b12
right there but our needs are incredibly
low so so it's literally redundant
production the problem being that the
b12 micro organism in our intestines
certainly thrives on sugars and so so
although the colonies in our mouth of
nose and throat and stuff are relatively
small in our intestines we have cities
of b12 microbes that thrive on sugar
when we go on a low sugar diet we have
smaller colonies producing less b12
because b12 is basically part of their
excrement at the same time the uptake
sites for b12 become blocked by the high
fat in the low carb diets and so you
produce less of it and absorb even less
being that you are stressing the body
and then consuming even less of a stress
vitamin you're giving yourself like a
quadruple whammy at that point certainly
my experience has been that most of the
b12 most of the b12 symptoms that people
show our remedy by removing the cause of
the problem
which is typically inhibited inhibited
absorption and so clinically we've
tested hundreds of people who have come
for fasts low on b12 put them on a two
or three week fast and retest them for
b12 and they test normal where they had
no intake of b12 and so what was
actually done was removal of the stress
and removal of the reduced absorption so
I won't say that it's not an issue we we
have a firm policy that as important as
our philosophy is saving the life of a
human is always more important than our
philosophy I mean philosophy be damned
at that point save the life but
intervening through supplementation is
not something I've had to resort to you
know in one in a thousand cases I mean
it's it's just very very rare would I
ever give somebody supplements rather
than watch them die from lack of iron or
lack of b12 sure the idea of
irreversible nerve damage is is not a
myth there are people who have
experienced irreversible nerve damage
from b12 deficiency typically these
people are drug addicts alcoholics and
children of saying they're people who
are not aware of the problem until long
long long after it's your body will
generally give you three to five years
worth of symptoms before you're going to
experience irreversible damage so it's
not the it's not quite the fear that I
mean we're back to rule number one
create the need